Conestoga College logo
About Conestoga
Conestoga news
Home
 
Overview 
 
Corporate information 
 
College initiatives 
 
Campuses & locations 
« Previous
Conestoga news
Next »
June 24, 2008 12:08 PM

Conestoga Baja Race Team Posts Outstanding Effort
A Baja racer is a rugged, off-road vehicle valued for its durability, traction, maneuverability and endurance. Each year, SAE International sponsors a competition for Baja racers designed and built by teams of college and university students representing institutions from throughout the Western hemisphere.

A dedicated team of Conestoga mechanical engineering, welding and machining students has been involved in the SAE competition. At the recently concluded competition, Conestoga’s vehicle placed 35th among the 122 entrants.

Only two Ontario schools - the University of Windsor (eighth) and Queen’s University (13th) finished higher than Conestoga. In turn, Conestoga’s team outpaced a number of other Ontario schools, including McMaster (47th), Waterloo (54th and 62nd) and Western Ontario (86th). Conestoga’s effort also yielded a better result than outstanding universities such as Worcester Polytechnic Institute (38th), Georgia Tech (40th), Cornell (49th), Johns Hopkins (66th) and McGill (73rd).

In the previous year’s event, Conestoga had placed 47th.

baja01.jpg
The purpose of the competition is to simulate real-world engineering experiences, along with related work challenges. Each participating team must work as a group to design, build and race a single-seat off-road vehicle.

Baja SAE consists of regional competitions that reflect engineering design projects and their related challenges. Each vehicle is powered by a 10hp engine.

The Conestoga team races under the name COBRA, for Conestoga Off-road Baja Racing Association. The team members are students Jason Jurchuk (leader), Jacob Botden, Dejan Dolso, Daniel Hoffmann, Sebastien Lavigne, Vernon Loy and Jacob Royston. Serving as advisors are faculty members Roger Enns and Mike Verwey.

The top three finishers in the 2008 competition were Centro Universitario FEI (Brazil), the State University of New York at Stony Brook and the University of Florida.

SAE International, founded in 1916 as the Society of Automotive Engineers, has more than 90,000 members from more than 90 nations. Based in the Pittsburgh area, it is a non-profit and scientific organization dedicated to the advancement of mobility technology to better serve humanity. It is concerned with product and process standards, as well as educational programs.

CONTACT: Roger Enns, 519-748-5220, ext. 3263.

More information on the Conestoga team and vehicle is at www.conestogac.on.ca/~minibaja

baja02.jpg
Posted on June 24, 2008 12:08 PM in News Release | Permalink

Contact
299 Doon Valley Drive
Kitchener, Ontario N2G 4M4, Canada
Phone: 519-748-5220
Campus maps

    

Social media directory
Explore
Programs & courses
Applying to Conestoga
Accessible Learning
Student Financial Services
Academic dates
Parking & transportation
Visit us
About
Careers at Conestoga
Research & innovation
Giving to Conestoga
Policies & procedures
Emergency closure information
News & events
College service notices
CourseCompare 2025 badge
© Conestoga College. All rights reserved | Privacy | Terms of use | Feedback | Contact